v6.6 Changelog and Docs (#5505)
mattermost/docs: source/install/self-managed-changelog.md

See the [changelog in progress](https://bit.ly/2nK3cVf) for the upcoming release. See the [Legacy Self-Hosted Mattermost Changelog](legacy-self-hosted-changelog) for details on all Mattermost self-hosted releases prior to v5.37. 

Latest Mattermost Releases:
- [Release v6.6 - Feature Release](#release-v6-6-feature-release)
- [Release v6.5 - Feature Release](#release-v6-5-feature-release)
- [Release v6.4 - Feature Release](#release-v6-4-feature-release)
- [Release v6.3 - Extended Support Release](#release-v6-3-extended-support-release)
- [Release v5.37 - Extended Support Release](#release-v5-37-extended-support-release)

## Release v6.6 - [Feature Release](https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/release-definitions.html#feature-release)

**Release Day: 2022-04-16**

### Compatibility
 - Updated Safari recommended minimum version to v14.1+.

### Important Upgrade Notes
 - The Apps Framework protocol for binding/form submissions has changed, by separating the single `call` into separate `submit`, `form`, `refresh` and `lookup` calls. If any users have created their own Apps, they have to be updated to the new system.

>  - The default for ``ThreadAutoFollow`` has been changed to ``true``. This does not affect existing configurations where this value is already set to ``false``.

Reviewer: We don't really need this to be an important upgrade note since it doesn't affect existing installs

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than v6.5, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Highlights

#### Apps Framework 1.0: General Availability

>  - The App Framework allows developers to build integrations with Mattermost that seamlessly work across Mattermost’s desktop and mobile clients, can be coded in any language developers are comfortable with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - The App Framework allows developers to build integrations with Mattermost that seamlessly work across Mattermost’s desktop and mobile clients. Apps can be developed using any programming language, as opposed to plugins which must be developed in Go.
```

#### Actions Restructure

>  - The **Actions** menu was restructured to reduce clutter.

Reviewer: cc// @aaronrothschild on copy here

#### Nested Permalink Previews

>  - Added nested previews for permalinks.

Reviewer: cc// @laneycs on copy here

#### Playbook Updates
 - 

### Improvements

#### User Interface (UI)
 - Added a right-hand side Channel Info panel to see and interact with channel information.
 - Added support for inline editing of posts.
 - Changed the Mattermost indigo theme to match the dark theme in code blocks.
 - Updated in-product links to legacy domain about.mattermost.com.
 - Added a copy button when hovering over code blocks.
 - Added a post menu item to copy raw text.
 - Added a loading indicator to the **Threads** global list each time more posts are fetched on infinite scroll.
 - Added search guidance to the **Threads** global list when no more posts can be loaded. This is only shown if you’ve scrolled to load older posts and reach the end of the list.
 - Added accessibility support for custom statuses.
 - Tooltip is now only displayed when text is too long in the announcement banner.
 - When restricting direct messages to users on the same team, bots are now excluded from that restriction.
 
#### Performance
 - Improved performance when clearing notifications with Collapsed Reply Threads enabled.

>  - Improved performance of Collapsed Reply Threads when backend is enabled but frontend is disabled.

Reviewer: Improved performance of Collapsed Reply Threads when `ThreadAutoFollow` is enabled but `CollapsedThreads` is disabled.

 - Fixed an issue where channel links on hover overlapped the channels menus.
 - Fixed the positioning of the post menu in mobile web view.
 - Fixed an issue where closing the keyboard shortcut modal by "CTRL/CMD + /" didn’t work.
 - Fixed an issue where the channel keyboard navigation was broken in the Threads view.
   
### config.json
Multiple setting options were added to ``config.json``. Below is a list of the additions and their default values on install. The settings can be modified in ``config.json``, or the System Console when available.

#### Changes to Team Edition and Enterprise Edition:
 - Under ``ServiceSettings`` in ``config.json``:
    - The default for ``ThreadAutoFollow`` has been changed to ``true``. This does not affect existing configurations where this value is already set to ``false``.

### Go Version
 - v6.6 is built with Go ``v1.16.7``.

### Open Source Components
 - Added ``@tippyjs/react``, ``react-popper``, ``react-slidedown`` and ``smooth-scroll-into-view-if-needed`` , and removed ``prettier`` and ``xregexp`` from https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-webapp.

### Known Issues

>  - [Collapsed Reply Threads](https://docs.mattermost.com/messaging/organizing-conversations.html) is currently in beta. Before enabling the feature, please ensure you are well versed in the [known issues](https://docs.mattermost.com/messaging/organizing-conversations.html#known-issues), particularly relating to database resource requirements and server performance implications. If you cannot easily scale up your database size, or are running the Mattermost application server and database server on the same machine, we recommended waiting to enable Collapsed Reply Threads until it's [promoted to general availability in Q1 2022](https://mattermost.com/blog/collapsed-reply-threads-ga). Learn more about these [performance considerations here](https://support.mattermost.com/hc/en-us/articles/4413183568276).

Reviewer: ...promoted to general availability in Q2 2022

 - Added accessibility support for custom statuses.
 - Tooltip is now only displayed when text is too long in the announcement banner.
 - When restricting direct messages to users on the same team, bots are now excluded from that restriction.
 - Brazilian Portuguese language support was downgraded to Beta.
 
#### Performance
 - Improved performance when clearing notifications with Collapsed Reply Threads enabled.
 - Improved performance of Collapsed Reply Threads when ``ThreadAutoFollow`` is enabled but ``CollapsedThreads`` is disabled.
 - Fixed a potential memory leak in the sidebar when using accessibility hotkeys.
 - Virtualized the emoji picker and added other performance improvements to the emoji picker.
 - Improved the performance of storing users in webapp.
 - Fixed a small memory leak in the **System Console**.

#### Plugins
 - Updated the plugin registry's ``registerCallButtonAction`` method to allow for displaying custom calls buttons in the channel header.
 - Added a debugging setting to turn off client-side plugins for the current user.
 - Added performance metrics related to plugin loading on page load.

#### Administration

>  - The default for [``ThreadAutoFollow``](https://docs.mattermost.com/configure/configuration-settings.html#automatically-follow-threads) has been changed to ``true``. This does not affect existing configurations where this value is already set to ``false``.

Reviewer 3: @esethna should we advise people to turn it on if they have it to off?

Reviewer: Good point, I'll add a note

See the [changelog in progress](https://bit.ly/2nK3cVf) for the upcoming release. See the [Legacy Self-Hosted Mattermost Changelog](legacy-self-hosted-changelog) for details on all Mattermost self-hosted releases prior to v5.37. 

Latest Mattermost Releases:
- [Release v6.6 - Feature Release](#release-v6-6-feature-release)
- [Release v6.5 - Feature Release](#release-v6-5-feature-release)
- [Release v6.4 - Feature Release](#release-v6-4-feature-release)
- [Release v6.3 - Extended Support Release](#release-v6-3-extended-support-release)
- [Release v5.37 - Extended Support Release](#release-v5-37-extended-support-release)

## Release v6.6 - [Feature Release](https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/release-definitions.html#feature-release)

**Release Day: 2022-04-16**

### Compatibility
 - Updated Safari recommended minimum version to v14.1+.

### Important Upgrade Notes

>  - The Apps Framework protocol for binding/form submissions has changed, by separating the single `call` into separate `submit`, `form`, `refresh` and `lookup` calls. If any users have created their own Apps, they have to be updated to the new system.

Reviewer 4: @mickmister has confirmed that a docs update is needed for this update via https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-webapp/pull/9263#issuecomment-1089362136

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than v6.5, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Highlights

#### Apps Framework 1.0: General Availability

>  - The App Framework allows developers to build integrations with Mattermost that seamlessly work across Mattermost’s desktop and mobile clients. Apps can be developed using any programming language, as opposed to plugins which must be developed in Go.

Reviewer 4: https://developers.mattermost.com/integrate/apps/

#### Actions Restructure
 - The **Actions** menu was restructured to reduce clutter.

#### Nested Permalink Previews
 - Added nested previews for permalinks.

#### Playbook Updates

>  - Added retrospective metrics to track up to four key metrics that indicate performance of every run.

Reviewer 4: @justinegeffen - Can you help provide a link to the docs for this update, please?

#### Triggers and Actions

>  - Channel admins can now configure certain actions to be executed automatically based on trigger conditions without writing any code.

Reviewer 4: A PR for Channels is in progress: https://github.com/mattermost/docs/pull/5545
Justine is drafting a Playbook update as well. PR coming soon.

### Improvements

> #### User Interface (UI)

Reviewer 4: @amyblais - I'm happy to help with this ask -- either the initial pass or a follow-up editorial pass. Just let me know how best I can assist.

 - Added a right-hand side Channel Info panel to see and interact with channel information.
 - Added support for inline editing of posts.
 - Changed the Mattermost indigo theme to match the dark theme in code blocks.
 - Updated in-product links to legacy domain about.mattermost.com.
 - Added a copy button when hovering over code blocks.
 - Added a post menu item to copy raw text.
 - Added a loading indicator to the **Threads** global list each time more posts are fetched on infinite scroll.
 - Added search guidance to the **Threads** global list when no more posts can be loaded. This is only shown if you’ve scrolled to load older posts and reach the end of the list.
 - Added accessibility support for custom statuses.
 - Tooltip is now only displayed when text is too long in the announcement banner.
 - When restricting direct messages to users on the same team, bots are now excluded from that restriction.

>  - Brazilian Portuguese language support was downgraded to Beta.

Reviewer 4: Historically, we've documented language support downgrades under Improvements > User Interface (UI) in the changelogs. I appreciate that where this information is included today could be misleading (but we don't necessarily have a better home for this content given the current structure of the the changelog sections).

 - Fixed a potential memory leak in the sidebar when using accessibility hotkeys.
 - Virtualized the emoji picker and added other performance improvements to the emoji picker.
 - Improved the performance of storing users in webapp.
 - Fixed a small memory leak in the **System Console**.

#### Plugins
 - Updated the plugin registry's ``registerCallButtonAction`` method to allow for displaying custom calls buttons in the channel header.
 - Added a debugging setting to turn off client-side plugins for the current user.
 - Added performance metrics related to plugin loading on page load.

#### Administration
 - The default for ``ThreadAutoFollow`` has been changed to ``true``. This does not affect existing configurations where this value is already set to ``false``.
 - Improved the license upload flow.
 - The Start Trial CTA presents a modal exposing the benefits the client gets by starting the trial, encouraging Admins to request a trial license and engage them with the product.
 - A new field was added to the client configuration to let clients know the database schema version of the server. The applied database migrations have also been added to the **System Console**.

>  - Added a ``Automatically Follow Threads`` configuration setting to the **System Console** to expose the ``threadAutoFollow`` config setting to the User Interface.

Reviewer 4: Documented via https://github.com/mattermost/docs/pull/5520

 - An error is now shown on the email invitation modal if SMTP is not configured but email invitations are ``true``.
 - Logs from third-party libraries are now included in the default logging configuration.
 - Added additional performance debugging settings.
 - The support email field has moved from **Customization** to **Notifications** in the System Console. Also, a support email is now required when configuring email notifications.
 - The ping endpoint can now receive a device ID, which will report whether the device is able to receive push notifications.

>  - Feature flags are now automatically refreshed when the server undergoes a restart.

Reviewer 4: https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/server/feature-flags/
